Dynamic Copula Toolbox

This is a freely available toolbox that can be used to estimate the following models:

Copula - GARCH models
Copula - Vine models

For more information about the proper use of the toolbox consult the pdf file inside the toolbox.

------------------------------------HOW TO USE THE TOOLBOX -----------------------------

1. Two step copula models:

First call modelspec(data) where data is a data set with heteroscedastic margins, to create the model specifications.
For a two step copula model, at the first pop up menu item that asks "what do you want to setimate" choose: 
"Fit a GARCH model to each series", to define the marginal models. The call the fitModel function
 to estimate the marginal parameters. For the second step call again modelspec to define the copula parameters by choosing "copula"
at the first pop up menu item and then call fitModel to get the estimates of the copula parameters. Be sure to imput as the second
argument (data) the last output from the first call of fitModel (udata). That is because in order to estimate a copula you data
should consist of uniform iid margins.


2. One step copula models: 

First call: spec=modelspec(data) where data is a data set with heteroscedastic margins, to create the model specifications.
For an one step copula model choose: "Copula in one step", to define the model. The call the fitModel function to estimate the model parameters.
If you use the naive guess for the starting values the procedure might take a lot of time. Thus first estimate the model in two steps
and use that output (combined in a column vector of the form: [margin1;margin2;copula] where margin1 is the parameters of the first margin etc)
as starting values for the two step procedure.

3. Copula Vine

If your data consists of iid uniform margin when modelspec is called define "Copula Vine". Else filter your data by choosing
"Fit a GARCH model to each series", just as in the two step copula models and use the output udata as the input argument data
for the copula vine. Note: the copula vine with bivariate t copulas in the cascade needs a lot of time to converge, that is why
you should use good starting values. The choice "Copula Vine sequentially" should be used only to obtain starting values for 
a copula vine. Run this prior to "Copula Vine" to obtain starting values.

If all the above are too complicated send your model specifications to vogia@yahoo.com and I will send back the exact steps you should
follow in order to estimate your model.



